In this section, we'll be writing unit tests for our user account controller methods, unit testing
is where we'll be focusing on just the class under test, the unit under test and will be mocking out
its dependencies.
In this case, we have two dependencies user account repository and interest repository.
These two will be mocked out and we'll be testing one public method at a time.
And when we test them, we will stub out these method calls on these mocked objects.
For example, register user uses, user repo dot save instead of invoking the actual method and going
against the database, which will become a integration test, we will be mocking out our stubbing out
this call using Mockito framework.
So we're going to use the Junit for unit testing and Mockito for mocking out these calls because we just
want to test this layer, not the entire application or the next layer as well, which is integration
testing this is unit testing.
If you want to learn more about unit testing and how to use JUnit and Mockito, you can take my Junit
and Mockito crash course.
Yeah, I'm going to explain what is required to create unit tests.
The first step we already have the Springboot Starter Test, which was automatically added when we created
this project this springboot starter
test brings in JUnit, Mockito and other dependencies
transitively
You go to the test class undersource Test Java.
The first step is to mock out the dependencies.
The user account repository and the interest repository are the two dependencies, which our controller
uses these two here.
Instead of using the real ones, we mark them with the @mock annotations so that they will be mocked
and those mocked ones will be injected into our user account controller
This is the class under test.
We mark it with @ Inject Mocks annotation.
Everything will happen magically.
Mockito will create mock objects for these two and it will inject them into our user account controller.
Once we have those to test any of the methods, we mock out the calls or we stubout the calls on these
mocked objects.
For example, test user or test register user uses the save method on user repo.
Instead of going against the real method and to the database, we will be stubbing out that call using
the Mockito when class when user account repository Dot save is invoked with a user account that is being
passed in.
This is what you should return.
So we are mocking out that entire call, then return a saved user account, which is a object we create
right here.
We just said the ID on it.
We can set whatever fields we want on it.
It is just a Java bean that we are creating.
So using Mockito when we will stub out the method calls are will mock the method calls and
then we call the method under test, when you invoke this.
The registry user will use save method, which will be this stubbed out call.
This response will come back from here instead of from the real object.
And whatever response we get back, we will assert on that response.
And also using Mockito Verify, you can verify if this save method is really being invoked on this mocked
out object, you will do the same thing for the rest of the test methods as well.
So two important steps.
First is to mock out these dependencies and inject them into the class under test.
And then you stub out the method calls.
Do the assertions and verifications.